If you think about it, there's like a
third shift between midnight and 8:00
a.m. roughly, right? That people tend
not to work because they're sleeping.
Imagine if operations like logistics
could still run during that shift,
right? Um and then same thing, imagine
you're a field service technician, you
need a part. Like how amazing would it
be if the part could just get delivered
to you? Like that is something that's
going to be a nice augment to
operations. So, it's interesting cuz
typically when you see automation kick
in, um again, volume increases, right?
Because costs come down. There's way
more demand out there than people
realize because sometimes you'll say,
"Yeah, I could use that part, but I
don't need it delivered if it's going to
cost 50 bucks for someone to drive it to
me." If it cost five bucks or or no
bucks, like how awesome would that be?
So, we kind of view it as like it will
increase the speed that the world
operates at.
>> [music]
[music]
>> In this episode, we talk with Sanjit
Biswas, founder and CEO of Samsara.
Sanjit formerly founded Meraki and has a
legendary reputation amongst Sequoia
backed founders. So, I'm excited to
welcome him today for a conversation
about physical AI.
Samsara is a $20 billion market cap
public company with sensors deployed and
streaming data from millions of vehicles
capturing 90 billion miles annually.
Sanjit shares his insights about the
constraints of physical AI from running
inference on two to 10 watt edge devices
to why diversity of real world data is
both the biggest challenge and
opportunity for embodied AI.
If you're building in robotics or
physical AI, this conversation offers a
rare perspective from somebody who's
actually scaled it. Enjoy the show.
Sanjit, thank you so much for joining us
today. You are a legendary Sequoia
founder and it is a delight to have you
back at Sequoia. Thanks for having me.
It's great to be back.
Um I want to start with your background.
So, you you went from MIT's Roofnet
project to co-founding Meraki through
its $1.2 billion acquisition and you are
now the founder and CEO of Samsara, a
$23 billion market cap company um with
the best ticker on the on the public
markets.
Uh what's what's the through line? Tell
tell me about your your personal
passions and and experiences and what
the through line is between all of that.
Yeah, so I'm an engineer by background,
so studied EE and CS. Um I went to
undergrad out here at Stanford, went to
MIT for grad school, and that's where we
worked on this project called Roofnet.
So, the through line for me has been
about building cool products, cool
technologies that have real world
impact. And Roofnet, this is like over
20 years ago, the idea was could you
build really big wireless networks
because it, you know, kind of early
2000s, Wi-Fi was not mainstream. It was
a brand new technology. Internet access
was just becoming mainstream and is
still pretty expensive. And so, we saw
this opportunity to take Wi-Fi chips and
all that technology and use it to build
really big networks. And so, we kind of
had this idea that
uh internet access should be everywhere,
right? It should be in the air. And how
would you do that? We needed to build a
big network. So, that was Roofnet. And
then with Samsara, uh it's a bit of a
different sort of focus. We focus on the
world of physical operations. So, think
all the infrastructure companies,
whether it's energy utilities,
construction, logistics, like all these
real world physical industries. And the
idea has been real world impact through
things like risk reduction, improving
efficiency, um improving sustainability,
just using all this data and now AI.
Yeah.
Um physical AI feels like it's finally
going through an inflection moment.
You've been building Samsara for the
better part of a decade now. What did
you see at the time and like how has the
field changed? What why now? Yeah, so if
I rewind 10 years to when we were
founding the company, we had a couple of
sort of intuitive bets or guesses. And
the why now for us at that point was
connectivity. So, we'd been through the
Meraki journey and we'd seen internet
access go from being kind of rare and
and expensive to being ubiquitous. So,
this is 2015 for reference.
Um we saw basically the ability to
process large amounts of data really
coming online. So, the cloud had
matured. Um we were seeing the
beginnings of the GPU wave. Um and if
you remember back to 2015, Nvidia was a
player and they were doing a lot of
interesting like embedded GPUs. So, if
you picked up a Nintendo Switch back
then, it had amazing graphics, but it
fit in your hand. And so, we saw a
compute was getting really good. And
then we saw sensors, really specifically
cameras, were getting really good
because this is probably 7 8 years after
the iPhone launch. So, cameras had
gotten extraordinary. Um and you combine
all these three things together, you've
got connectivity, you've got compute,
and you've got sensors/cameras. And we
said, "This is the sort of like makings
for uh
a total sea change when it comes to
ability to process data in real world
context." Wonderful. Okay, I'm excited
to nerd out more about technical
questions on the frontier of physical
AI. Before we get into it, maybe can you
just say a word on Samsara for
listeners? Um I guess how much of the
business is, you know, I think of it as
very much a having had roots in
commercial trucking. How much of the
business is that today and what do you
see the ultimate vision of Samsara
being? Yeah, so we really focus on the
broad world of physical operations. So,
think about all these different kinds of
industries. Trucking is definitely one
of them. It's about 20 25% of our
business. So, logistics and and big
trucks on the road. A lot of our
business now is related to field service
and construction. So, other big kind of
frontline industries.
Um but we also are starting to work in
like um public sector. So, we work with
local governments. We work with student
transit. So, we just signed like the
largest yellow school bus operator in
North America, which is pretty cool. Um
and we work in industries like aviation.
So, think about like labor intensive,
asset heavy industries that really power
the infrastructure of the planet.
Wonderful. Can I go back to your comment
on So, at the time there was a why now
around bandwidth, compute, and cameras?
Yeah.
And it sounds like you may not have
necessarily had a crystal ball on what
was going to happen with AI. Yeah. But
you kind of felt like you're on the
right side of history.
And that with those raw ingredients,
you'd be able to do increasingly
sophisticated stuff over time. Yeah.
Um
what I'm curious about, I feel like
there are a lot of founders today who
are kind of in a similar position. Where
nobody has a crystal ball, we don't
really know what's coming.
But you kind of know that whatever
capabilities you're going to have
tomorrow are very different and better
than whatever capabilities you have
today. Yeah. So, I guess the question is
like
since you kind of had a directional
sense for where the world was going, how
did that influence the way you built the
business? Like was there anything
specifically you did just kind of in
anticipation of this inevitable
direction that the world was going?
Well, actually the historical context
important. So, our first company,
Meraki, which was uh funded by Sequoia,
we were domain experts. So, we knew a
ton about networking because that's what
we'd been working on in terms of our
PhD. With Samsara, it was kind of the
opposite. We knew nothing about this
domain. Like we'd never driven a
commercial truck before, never worked in
a warehouse. And so, we were sort of
eyes open about it. What we did have was
that intuitive sense of the compounding
rate of those underlying technologies.
So, we said, "Okay, there's this really
interesting like problem space, this
world of physical operations. It's kind
of like overlooked, especially 10 years
ago. No one was really talking about
infrastructure the way they are now.
But there are, you know, things are
changing very quickly behind the scenes
in terms of tooling. So, that intuition
is exactly sort of what we were powered
by. And we said, "Even if it's not
mainstream yet or it's not ready yet,
certainly in 5 to 10 years, which is
about now, it will be possible to do
this stuff." So, I think for a lot of
the current founders, it's kind of like
if you look at AI model capabilities,
even when like, you know, the chat GPT
moment happened, these models weren't
perfect. They've gotten a lot better in
the last two three years and they're
going to get even better in the next two
to three years. I think technical people
understand that in a way that consumers
and customers often may not see yet.
So, I think given the embedded systems
background and, you know, you're one of
the unique people that's,
you know, operated at the intersection
of hard the hardware and software
worlds. Um I'm curious what are the
things that make building AI in the
physical world different than, you know,
running AI in big data centers?
Uh couple of things. Well, the it
actually is a lot of fun. So, the
physical world is very diverse. Um you
know, you see a lot of companies now
working on physical intelligence and
world models and it's because the
training data set is really broad and
vast. Um so, if you think about our
products, we have products like dash
cams that end up on the roads on
millions of vehicles. They see like 99%
of the US roads. It's just incredible
data set. You've got urban, you've got
rural, you've got residential, you've
got weather. And so, we see all these
like interesting exceptional cases. So,
the training data is really interesting.
And then what we can apply all the
inference and and basically pattern
matching to is also interesting. So, I
think that's the most fun part. The most
challenging part though is how messy it
is and how distributed it is. So,
um for our products, it's it's not
practical for us to just stream all the
data to the cloud. It would be like a
crazy bandwidth bill.
Um you need pretty massive data centers.
If you think about millions of video
streams like constantly running
inference. And so, we have a much more
distributed architecture where we
actually run in the cameras themselves.
And that changes uh your compute and
power footprint. You know, we're talking
about two to 10 watts, not like
kilowatts, right? Um
but you can do a lot more because you've
got millions of them. Hm.
And so, what is it Like how do you run
I'm thinking some of these large LLMs,
even even the image image models are
very large right now that people are
working with. Are you are you running
just very bespoke small models on on two
to 10 watts? That that's that doesn't
give you much It doesn't give you a lot
of room and that's a fun engineering
problem. So, um if you think about it,
these state of the art models, they are
very large. So, you're talking about
like, you know, hundreds of millions of
parameters or billions of parameters.
That is simply not possible. So, our
footprint is much more similar to what
you can run on like your mobile phone,
right? Um so, it's not tiny. It's not a
microcontroller. It runs Linux. It's got
like hundreds of megs of memory, maybe
gigs.
Um but it's it's It's like a big data
center, right? So, what we tend to do is
we will
um train models in the cloud. We'll
basically distill them down or use
teacher models. We'll use a big model to
basically instruct a small model that's
really designed for our use case because
we don't need to be able to answer, you
know, what the capital of France is,
right? Like that's not something the
dash cam has to encounter, but we do
need to be able to understand what is
the risk profile on the road. So, we
train it with the data that's relevant
for the task. How much of the data you
see 99% of US highways or US roads? How
much of that data can you make use of?
How much of that data do you make use
of? Yeah.
We can make use of a lot of it and we
basically have the ability to train over
like this entire data set. There is a
very practical question of like, okay,
you run a tokenizer at the edge, you you
send all these to the cloud, what do you
do with it? Yeah.
>> And what's cool about that is what we do
with it this year is so much more
interesting than what we could do with
it 2-3 years ago. So, 2-3 years ago and
and these products really started around
this idea of reducing risk. So, if you
think about the problem we're trying to
solve, it's that, you know, our
operations customers, they operate on
these roads every day. It's actually the
riskiest thing that they do is more so
than construction or working in oil and
gas. Driving on the highway, getting to
and from the job site is where they
incur like most of their like fatality
or or kind of
uh high severity risk.
>> Mhm. So, uh the question is how do you
go take all these images and tokens and
turn it into a risk signal, right? Um
Couple of years ago, we said, you know,
the biggest risk we are seeing right now
is mobile phone usage, Right. right?
Like people are on their mobile device
while driving a big truck and that's
super risky. So, we built a detector for
that.
>> Mhm. Um you do that and you say, okay,
we can solve this problem. We can detect
mobile phones. What else drives risk? Um
Now we're seeing things like weather,
right? And weather's always been a risk
factor. It's not a brand new one, but
it's now something we can detect using
these pretty sophisticated models.
Training a weather detector using like
old school convolutional networks like
an AlexNet style model, you would have
gotten a lot of things wrong. You
couldn't tell the road conditions.
Once you use more sophisticated models
like the ones we have today, you can
really figure it out. So, that's the
cool thing is there are these unlocks
that happen every couple of years as
model capabilities increase and our data
set increases. So, these two things like
really work in our favor.
Is there an upcoming unlock that you are
most looking forward to?
Uh in terms of our product set or just
in general?
>> Or a new capability that's going to
unlock some new use case or some new
feature for your product? You know, I
feel like we are seeing just such
incredible foundational model
capabilities that are making it possible
to just inference over huge amounts of
data. So, historically what we did is we
understood like what was happening in
the moment, right? So, like I said,
mobile phone detection or not wearing a
seat belt or following distance. Now we
can start to really look over the course
of a trip and we're not only detecting
like negative like risky downside
events, but we can actually detect good
behaviors, too. And I'm really excited
about that because frontline workers,
80-90% of the time they're doing a great
job. No one's able to recognize it cuz
no one sees it. So, what's awesome is we
can now see that someone's doing awesome
and give them a high five or like some
kind of recognition or kudos. That is
like making people's day and it's a cool
like silver lining side effect of having
all this stuff running. So, anyway, it's
kind of a
unexpected upside sort of.
>> Yeah. Yeah. And do you think it'll be
video reasoning models that sort of
empower that? I know you can't run a ton
you can't run giant models at the edge,
but are you doing stuff server side that
takes advantage of LLMs?
>> I should have mentioned that. So,
the model's connected. We have a ton of
inference running at the edge. It's
running continuously because when you're
driving, there's a continuous risk. And
then we're taking those tokens, we're
streaming them up. And in addition, you
know, we have images, we have video, we
have other kinds of telemetry. Um and
then we can go and run all kinds of
sophisticated things in the cloud. So,
if we need to understand when an
accident happened, what really happened,
we can run a full video language model
like like a reasoning model essentially
in the cloud and that can say, oh, this
was actually defensive driving and this
guy got cut off or these were the
conditions. So, that is really cool. Um
we couldn't have done that five years
ago. Do you believe in world models?
Loaded question. Um I do. I'm I'm
cautiously optimistic about them, but I
think you need a tremendous amount of
data. Yeah. Are you guys training your
own world models?
We are not building our own world model
um and I think it that requires a a very
specific kind of focus, but in the same
way we don't train our own like base
foundation models, but we are looking
forward to using them at some point.
>> Yeah. And I imagine you have
an incredibly rich data set that might
be useful. We do. Yeah, we see about 90
billion miles on our system every year.
So, it's a lot of driving. Mhm. Yeah. It
seems like the sensor footprint you've
built out is like a tech nerd's dream,
right? Most people dream of a connected
world and, you know, you should be able
to have so much telemetry on all these
different attributes of the physical
world, but as far as I can tell, you're
you're one of the only companies that's
really out gone out and, you know, put
sensors on the physical world in a
meaning in a really meaningful way.
>> Mhm. Why do you think that is and what's
the key to actually be able to make that
dream happen versus have it just be a,
you know, tech nerd's tech nerd's dream?
Yeah. First of all, it it takes uh it
takes a village to actually get the
stuff out there. Um and I think that's
maybe one other big difference between
just pure software and physical world
>> Yeah. is we have to get the products
installed. So, they're installed on
millions of vehicles. We have to train
frontline workforces on like what this
stuff is and what it's doing. Um And
then we have to provide value to all
these customers kind of from day one,
right? Like they have to get something
out of it. Um You combine all this
together and you get this big footprint,
but it's been hard because you need
thousands of people at our scale now to
do this and to do the change management
like the installs and all that kind of
stuff.
Um you know, there are a few companies
that have data sets of the scale, but
it's like Tesla and then probably us,
right? And then Waymo, there's thousands
of Waymos, but not millions. And maybe
it will be millions in the future, but
we're not there yet. So, that gives you
a sense of how much effort is just like
sheer willpower is required to get this
stuff out there. Speaking of which, I um
I think there are a lot of founders
right now who are technical founders
like yourself, Mhm. um who have built
something cool
and
are now encountering this crazy
supercharged race to scale
that the AI wave seems to have brought.
And so, I guess the question is you are
a technical founder.
I think both Samsara and Meraki have
been known for go-to-market execution.
>> Mhm.
And so, maybe the question is like how
important has go-to-market execution
been to your success?
And as a technical founder,
was it was it obvious to you at the
beginning that it was going to be that
important or kind of what was your
journey like in Yeah. in like
appreciating the importance of
go-to-market execution, if that makes
sense?
>> Yeah, I'm replaying like 20 years in my
head really fast.
>> [laughter]
>> So, uh when we started Meraki, at at
that point in time, like I had never
sold anything in my life. In fact, like
I
as an engineering nerd, like I avoided
any situation where there was like, you
know, you know, there's like fundraisers
you have to sell candy bars at school.
Like I would like I was like, does
anyone need a website for this thing?
>> [laughter]
>> You're just like trying to find some way
out of it. So, I I really was not like a
salesperson in terms of background and
no one in my family had done sales. So,
it was very foreign. Um the thing that
turned me on to it was this idea of this
is what it takes to get the product out
there. And if the product's not out
there, it's not having impact. So, if
you're driven by impact, if that's what
motivates you, it's fun to see people
using it, right? Um and then this is
what makes it sustainable. So, with
Meraki, we were growing the company
between 2006, it was acquired in 2012.
In the middle of that was a great
financial crisis, right? Um there wasn't
a lot of funding at the time. Like risk
capital was just like turned off.
So, we basically had to make the company
operate at break even, right? Or or
thereabouts. And that's what really
convinced us like we have to figure out
how to have sustainable sales execution
>> Mhm. and a model that's highly
predictable. And as engineers, we're
like, hey, this is actually a big
engineering problem, right? Um and then
that stuck with us with Samsara. We're
talking about impact at scale. Uh we
raised capital along the way, but
actually we reinvested way more just
from the revenue of the company, the
gross margin. So, if you look at our
numbers, we're public now, so you can
kind of go back through the balance
sheet. Um You can see we've invested
probably close to $3 billion just in
getting the stuff out there, right? R&D,
customer success, all that stuff. That
is only possible with a lot of sales,
right?
>> Um so, once you understand the why, you
can kind of buy into it and say I'm
going to figure this out. It was not
natural for us, but it was a pivot that
that ended up being something we had to
do and I'm really glad we figured it out
and have been getting better at it each
year. Yeah. Meraki, you were the domain
expert. Samsara, you were not when you
started the company.
Why why go and pick that domain?
I think it was curiosity. Um and this is
a little bit of like you can go back to
sort of curious nerd roots. Like you
just find yourself like reading books
and wondering how stuff works. Um So,
after Meraki, we actually didn't have a
plan to start another company. Uh there
was a while I thought I was going to go
back to grad school, finish the PhD kind
of thing.
Uh my co-founder, John Bickett, he's
like way smarter. He's like, that's
never going to work, but
>> [laughter]
>> uh you go do that. And in that period of
time, I realized that academic research
is very long feedback loop kind of slow
cycle, but there were a lot of other
interesting problems that caught my
attention. So, I I got interested, I
think, in energy at that time. So, I was
like learning about um how the
electrical grid worked or at the time
didn't work because photovoltaics and
renewables were coming online.
Um I started getting curious about
nuclear, about um satellites and things
like that. So, it's kind of fun to be
able to just open your mind up to
everything when you've been like
laser-focused on one thing. Yeah. And
then over and over um I found myself and
then John found himself like attracted
to this world of infrastructure. And so,
it was just curiosity about this part of
the world that felt pretty overlooked.
Mm. Really cool.
What do you think of autonomy? And that
might be a loaded question, but, you
know, I 2 years ago I avoided getting in
Waymos. Now I don't think No, I don't
think twice. I I feel safer
[clears throat] in a Waymo than not in
one. Um what's your what's your point of
view? Um super excited about it. Very
bullish. I think uh it's been a long
time coming. When I was an undergrad at
Stanford, they were doing the first like
DARPA Grand Challenge cars. So, this is
like 20 plus years ago now. And like you
said, Waymos have gone from kind of like
prototype test to like I prefer Waymo,
right? It's super consistent. Um you
know, there's lots of things to like
about it. So, our view on it is autonomy
happens and it actually increases the
operational intensity of the world,
right? So, if you think about it,
there's like a third shift between
midnight and 8:00 a.m. roughly, right?
That people tend not to work because
they're sleeping. Imagine if operations
like logistics could still run during
that shift, right?
Um and then same thing, imagine you're a
field service technician, you need a
part. Like how amazing would it be if
the part could just get delivered to
you? Like that is something that's going
to be a nice augment to operations. So,
we're a fan of it. Um our view on it is
we think it's an and not not an or
exclusive. Um and it's it's interesting
cuz typically when you see automation
kick in,
um again, volume increases, right?
Because costs come down. There's way
more demand out there than people
realize because sometimes you'll say,
"Yeah, I could use that part, but I
don't need it delivered if it's going to
cost 50 bucks for someone to drive it to
me." If it costs five bucks or or no
bucks, like how awesome would that be?
So, we kind of view it as like it will
increase the speed that the world
operates at. You think it's happening on
roads only or you have customers with
warehouses and forklifts and all the
above? You like you think autonomy will
hit all those sectors? So, I think
autonomy already hit the warehouse. Um
we have a lot of customers with big
like, you know, logistics warehouses.
And really about 10 years ago, they
started getting automated in a
meaningful way. And it's pretty rare for
me to go into like a
um heavily, you know, industrialized
environment without seeing automation.
And that's everything from like lift
systems to big arms moving things. And
it actually is welcomed by the people in
the warehouse cuz it helps reduce
injury. So, if you think about it,
frontline workers are putting themselves
at risk when they do their job every
day. It it is not a great outcome to get
hurt lifting a pallet or, you know,
doing something like that. So, that is I
think a good sort of um preview of what
we're going to see out on the road. And
then I think after that, there's a
construction site and job site.
>> Yeah. Humanoids, yes or no?
Uh cautiously optimistic, little bit
scary.
>> [laughter]
>> I won't lie. They they feel like they're
in that kind of creepy uncanny valley.
Like when you see them walking around
without heads or or hands or something.
Have you seen Leo I have. That's that's
a friendly one. Yeah. [laughter]
Um but I I think it's it reminds me of
where self-driving was about 10 years
ago. So, probably not a tomorrow, but it
does feel inevitable. So, as the
capabilities increase, it's going to be
really exciting. Yeah. How does the role
that Samsara plays in the world change
as we have more and more autonomy over
time?
Well, I kind of think of it as digital
transformation. So, if you zoom way out,
that's what customers are are excited
about is how do we digitize these
operations that have been around 50, 100
years in some cases. And most of our
customers, they welcome new technology.
So, they adopted computers for, you
know, route planning like in the 1970s
or something like that. So, they're not
against technology. It's is it going to
help? Is it going to be relevant?
So, our take is you're going to want
like a platform to see all of your
operations for all of these different
operations to interact. So, you can see
your frontline workers, you could see
all your vehicles, you could see your
assets, know what needs maintenance. All
of these problems will will be
evergreen. You're going to want to
maintain your assets like 20, 30 years
from now. Maybe they're robots, and
maybe they move on their own, but they
still need maintenance, for example.
Um and then same thing, when you've got
customer-facing or end customer-facing
teams, you're still going to need to
orchestrate hopefully thousands of
people, right? And they may have help
from robots and humanoids and all kinds
of stuff behind the scenes, but how do
you kind of run the entire operation?
So, that's what we focus on is the big
picture as opposed to any specific
product or technology.
How do you see the future of humans and
AI interacting in the physical world and
in the industries that you serve?
Well, I think they're getting closer and
closer. So,
10 years ago when we started Samsara,
most of our customers did run on a lot
of like pen and paper process. Like
2015, it's it's not the distant past,
right? Like it really has been a change
that they've gone from pen and paper to
apps.
I think as AI kicks in, you see many of
them like using um voice bots for
freight brokerage, right? Like that's a
brand new phenomenon. Really in the last
year. And they've taken to it very
quickly. It's automating tasks. So, I
kind of think of it as where are there
where is our high task intensity? A lot
of like repetitive task work. And can AI
help? Absolutely. So, that's where we're
seeing like very high rates of adoption.
Um I think the stuff that's not
changing, at least not yet, is the
physical work itself is still being done
by people because it requires a lot of
exception handling. So, construction's a
great example. So much diversity in
construction. Um we're not to the point
where you can automate it the way you
could automate like car manufacturing,
for example. Do you think AI is, you
know, you you mentioned it's something
that prevents risky behavior in humans.
Um are you also seeing it kind of coach
humans in these operational environments
to actually perform better? Yeah. So, um
you know, I and first just thinking
about risk, coaching makes a big
difference. So, there's risk detection.
Like, you know, please put down your
mobile phone. But then if it's a habit
of yours, um we actually want to coach
you to help break the habit, right? And
um if you kind of look at the impact
we're able to have with customers, we
often reduce risk like by 75%. So, you
know, three quarters of the risk comes
out of the system.
Maybe half of that can come from the
automated like in the moment in-cab
alert. And then the other half comes
from coaching. And then that same
coaching can be applied to like fuel
efficiency. You can actually train
drivers to operate heavy equipment in
really smart ways. You can gamify it,
right? So, that's the kind of like cool
opportunity that AI has is process just
enormous amounts of data, more data than
any human can do.
You look at patterns across thousands or
millions of vehicles and then turn it
into actionable insight. That's
coaching.
Um so, you can apply it to safety, you
can apply it to efficiency. It's it's
pretty cool. What's the organizing
principle of your
product portfolio? You know, you start
from dash cams, it's expanded out from
there. Maybe just tell us the history of
how the product portfolio has expanded
and and how you see the future. Yeah, so
we actually started with GPS tracking or
telematics. So, um 2015, dash cams were
not quite viable yet. Um but
>> Because of the cost or Um yeah, cost and
both like the backhaul cost of
bandwidth, but also uh the cost of the
cameras and things like that. But what
was surprising to us was in 2015, most
of the operational environments we went
into, no one had any idea where their
field teams were. Not in real time. And
there was this like disconnect because
Uber and DoorDash had started to happen,
right? And so, it was weird. The gig
economy had real-time tracking, but then
like the logistics like long-haul
logistics economy was still getting like
breadcrumbs like every 10 to I think it
was like 5 to 15 minutes. And uh this
probably predates most of the people
listening to to the show, but um
there was this platform MapQuest that
predated like Google Maps, right? So,
late '90s MapQuest like vintage map,
right? Sony wasn't around for that.
>> [laughter]
>> You'd have to print out the MapQuest
directions and then take your piece of
paper out to figure out where you were
>> going.
>> And it was just kind of like grainy. It
looked like, you know, Minecraft level
graphics. Um
the the amazing part was our customers
now back then were using MapQuest
printouts. And their system for GPS
tracking was built on top of MapQuest.
So, I would go on site and I would say,
"Whoa, we can help with this." So, that
was product number one. It was GPS
tracking. Um that got uh that basically
got us off the ground and and got us
into customers. And from there, we
started figuring out, "Well, really the
bigger challenge for them was managing
risk." Because at that point in time, it
was mid-2010s. People did have phones in
their pockets. And um
they actually asked us, "We're getting a
lot of accidents. Do you have a dash cam
you recommend that works well with your
system?"
So, we said, "If we built one for you,
would you use it?" And they said, "Yeah,
absolutely." So, John, my co-founder,
remember he went to like Amazon, ordered
like a webcam, plugged in the USB port,
and like over the weekend wrote some
code to get a basic webcam working. We
brought it back to the customers the
next week. They tried it. They loved it.
And then they we were watching the
videos with them. And you could see as
people were getting in accidents, they
like had their phone out, right? And so,
we said, "Could we build a detection for
that?" So, that's where the AI part of
the dash cam came from. It was very
iterative. Um and that has now become
our largest product, but it's sold with
the the first product. So, you asked
about the the kind of portfolio
strategy, it's concentric circles. It's
keep doing what we started with. Um core
use case, adjacent use case. What else
can we do? What else can we do? What
else can we do? And now we have about 10
products out there. Mm. Really cool. You
mentioned kind of the backhaul and and
network bandwidth being a binding
constraint. I'm curious if you think the
growing adoption of Starlink and just,
you know, internet everywhere is going
to change what it's possible to do in
the physical world. Um absolutely. So,
we started Samsara right around the 3G
4G transition. And the unlock was
actually um YouTube, right? So, if you
remember 2015, everyone was like
starting to watch YouTube and baseball
games and stuff on their phone. That
drove data consumption way up on the
carrier. The marginal cost per gigabyte
came way down. And we were able to
piggyback on that, right? And so, that
was really cool. I think something
similar is happening now, not just with
5G, which is like the networks have
invested even more. Um but now with
satellite, right? Like the cost of
building Starlink is enormous. Like I
don't know how much is being spent on
it. It's like many tens of billions,
right? And launch capacity, you know, so
on. But the marginal cost to add another
device to Starlink is pretty low, right?
And that's like the cost for any network
effect.
So we're excited about that because
it'll help us get that last like 1% of
coverage. And a lot of our customers are
in super remote rural areas. Like we
have a lot of customers in energy like
oil and gas. Yeah. There there are no
roads where they operate. And so there's
not that much cellular coverage either.
Do you think that does away with some of
the constraints of running AI on the
edge? Meaning like today you can only
use some percentage of you can only
stream back some percentage of data.
Could do a lot of on-board compute?
Yeah. In the world of just internet
everywhere where it's just a lot faster
and cheaper to to send all data back and
forth. Could you be doing a lot of it
server-side and could you be doing a lot
more? You could do more of it, but it's
funny how like when stuff gets cheaper
you find a way to do more, right? And so
when I think of it's like a compression
problem, right? Like in
if the workload was static, like if you
were just trying to get GPS data into
the cloud, yes, just stream it all,
right? Like it's not a big deal. If you
were trying to get
But if you want HD video from a 360 view
of a truck like eight cameras, Yeah.
that's a lot of video.
And then same thing if you want it with
all the other telemetry that we get, it
becomes pretty big. So I think you could
potentially do it. But if you can push
some of that to the edge and and kind of
like compress it down, everyone benefits
from it.
>> Mhm.
Do you think controls and autonomy could
ultimately be running in the cloud or
you think that's something people always
want to run on device?
That one I think you're probably going
to see edge compute for a long time. And
actually if we kind of go a little
technical for a second, one of the
challenges there has been around power
and computing cost, right? So if you
think about like a Tesla full
self-driving computer, it's a couple
thousand bucks. It takes many hundreds
of watts of energy and they're like the
first company to be making it really
practical at at scale. Waymo's probably
a bit more. Mhm. And so I do think that
we will continue to see those sorts of
approaches because safety is like such a
big deal. Like you've got humans in the
cab, you've got humans on the road. You
don't want like you know a network
outage to like a effect you know
people's lives. Yeah. If we're sitting
here in 2030, what do you think is the
biggest way that
AI has transformed the physical world
and physical operations?
I think a couple of thoughts. One is
we're pretty early, right? We're at the
end of 2025. The sort of AI adoption
curve in physical operations we're still
at the base of it.
And so by 2030 I think we'll have run up
the curve where it'd be much more
mainstream in the same way that like
using apps is much more mainstream now
than it was 5-10 years ago. So I think
you will see the current technologies
basically experience a lot more
diffusion and get out there.
I think we are going to see net new
technologies. Like I'm super excited
about augmented reality and wearables.
Like that's going to make a huge
difference for frontline workforces
where they have to have their hands
free. Mhm. And it brings AI like into
their ear. A lot of folks have airpods
in, right? But having like sort of
visual feedback, being able to run like
a VLM to understand what's going on in
the environment, that will be possible
in 2030. It's not quite possible yet,
but you can just feel it. It's like
right on the cusp. Mhm. Maybe it'll be
glasses. Maybe it'll be some of these
new devices that are under the wraps
that that We'll see. that communicate
with that. Yeah. What's your favorite
personal use of AI?
Personal use of AI?
Well, I love the sort of voice models.
Like I talk to AI. Like what whenever
I'm driving to or from work, like I'm
I'm chatting with it. It's not always
about anything specific. Like it's kind
of whatever's on my mind. So I love
that. I've become a big fan of like
ChatGPT pulse for example. Like it's
just cool that it tells you about for me
events that are happening in the Bay
Area. I've got three kids. Stuff it kind
of knows its interest, right? So that
whole idea that AI could know you better
than you to some extent is really
profound. So I love that on the personal
side. It kind of exposes us to new
experiences that we wouldn't have known
about like you know a music performance
or something like that that my kids
would like. Yeah. How much of the value
that you give customers do you think is
thanks to AI versus thanks to all the
other technology that you're building?
It's an interesting question.
Um
we don't really like split it out
because like there's value in the data,
but if no one looks at the data, it it
doesn't have impact, right? So one of
the things we've heard from customers is
this concern about data overload. Like
if you have sensor streams from every
vehicle and every frontline worker and
every asset, what do you do with it all,
right?
>> so AI is pretty awesome in terms of
really helping just distill that down to
something actionable. So that's why I
don't think you can like split the two
apart anymore. But it's transformative,
it's game-changing. And I spent a lot of
time on the road. Like last week I was
in
Texas like all over
big food distributor, big oil and gas
company.
Spent time with like the Home Depot.
And it's just cool hearing how they're
using the data in such creative ways.
And ones that they didn't have on their
sort of road map when they started with
us, but they're like, "Hey, if we can
use this data to help do time card
punches, right? Like get someone start
on their shift and they don't have to
walk to the office. That's awesome." Or
if we can share this data with our end
customer and let them know we're almost
there or we're delayed, that's pretty
cool. So it's really neat to see these
emergent use cases. Really cool. It's
it's great to dream on all the way that
AI can kind of seep into all these
different workflows and everyday lives.
Yeah, and it's never any one thing.
That's what I love about this is like
every quarter we get exposed to some new
use case. And a lot of it is
just you spend time with the customer,
you understand their operation, and then
you come up with like, "Hey, if we did
that with a like would a voice bot that
made
ETA delivery phone calls be useful to
you?" Yeah. And many of our customers
don't even know that's possible. They've
never engaged with a voice bot before.
So we'll do a demo for them. We'll we'll
do a prototype and they'll say, "This is
amazing." Right? And so that's kind of
fun to be able to kind of go back and
forth. Yeah. That's very cool. I'm
curious in
your point of view on, you know, there's
so much talk of US versus China
geopolitics and our industrial base
really needs to catch up. Our robotics,
our manufacturing, our physical AI
really needs to catch up. I'm curious if
you've seen that actually accelerate
customer conversations or have an impact
on your business in any way.
Not in my customer conversations. I do
think there's a like palpable sense of
we need to modernize and like how do we
how do we just rethink the way the
infrastructure runs? So many of our
customers are involved in data center
build-outs right now. They're the energy
utility, they're the construction
companies. Like there's a lot going on
there. Yeah. And I think that has
everyone thinking, "Okay, what does this
mean for us? And like what should be
different about our business?" So
there's a lot of introspection going on.
I haven't gotten the sense it's like US
versus China, but it's more of like
could we do this differently now? We're
like firmly in the 21st century, right?
Like it's what should be different now
than the way that like, you know,
previous generations ran these
operations. Wonderful. Mhm.
You've been a multi-time legendary
founder. Any advice for for young
technical founders who are out building
in AI right now?
I think it's a amazing time to build,
whether you've done this before or
you're starting it for the first time.
Like
>> Yeah. just the tools that are available,
it's incredible. And like to some extent
um you know, everything's getting
magnified or amplified, right? So I
think about
whether it's Codex or Cursor or all
these like automated coding tools. If
you have an idea now, you can like sort
of manifest it into something real so
much more easily than when we started
Samsara even when we started Meraki.
Like back then we were like racking
servers. We'd like buy servers from Dell
and like take them to the data center
and set them. Like can you imagine it's
just like how slow that feels now? I
can't even imagine that. It's actually
hard to imagine. [laughter] And but that
is happening and we will look back 10
years from now and say, "Can you believe
we did X?" right? I don't even know what
X is, but it will feel so different. So
it's fun to be on these like exponential
curves. And the best place to be on that
is to be building, right? Yeah. Really
cool. Thank you so much for taking time
to share your story and what you all are
up to on the AI side at Samsara. Thanks.
Thanks for having me.
>> [music]
[music]